[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Cancer is probably a
disease of civilization.
When we look at so-called
primitive or native societies
that eat a lot of
plant-based diet
and have a relatively brief
transit time, their food goes
from ingestion to elimination
in maybe 20 hours,
like it would be in Africa,
maybe even 18 or 15 hours,
compared to Western
diets which have
very little fiber, a lot more
fat, processed foods, starches,
where our elimination time,
our transit time might be 48
or even 72 hours, I think
there is a good chance
that the longer waste products
and toxins stay in the colon,
the more chance there is to
do damage and maybe even be
reabsorbed into the body.
When we look at
simple eaters, people
who eat a lot of fresh food,
and a lot of raw food, a lot
of plant-based food, we
find that colon cancer
is virtually nonexistent.
Colon cancer is a good place
to start because it's not
very easy to treat.
Colon cancer is a
very serious disease.
And I would say that it's
100% preventable by having
a high-fiber diet
and avoiding things
that we know that
aggravate cancer,
such as certain additives,
food preservatives,
environmental chemicals.
They could be a cause of
any number of cancers.
Mostly, I would
meet with clients
who had cancer, who were under
the care of an oncologist, who
were getting
conventional therapy.
And I would say to
them what I would
say to anyone, which
is, when you have
a serious illness like cancer
for which there is no sure
cure, you should do
everything you possibly can
and stack the deck
in your favor.
And that means building the
immune system nutritionally
and using vitamins to help
the body fight the disease.
Because being malnourished can't
possibly help you beat cancer.
So in addition to
conventional therapy,
you use nutrition as
an adjunctive therapy.
And they start taking
high doses of nutrients,
and you notice three things.
The first is people on chemo
don't lose their appetite.
The second thing you notice
when people are getting
lots of nutrition, lots of
vitamins is their hair loss
is reduced.
Sometimes they don't
even lose their hair.
And the third thing
that you notice
is that they don't have nausea.
People that are on
chemotherapy do not
like to have their appetite go
away, and to lose their hair,
and to feel nauseous.
Just that alone is enough
reason for every cancer patient,
in addition to
conventional therapy,
to take high doses of vitamins.
But it gets better than that.
Because we find that
high doses of vitamin
C are actually as good or
better than chemotherapy
in terms of killing
cancer cells,
and vitamin C is
infinitely safer.
And while we're at it,
it's also less expensive.
Nutrient therapy is safe,
effective, and inexpensive.
And that's the problem
because we've all
been taught that nothing
can be safe, effective,
and inexpensive.
Things are dangerous, sometimes
helpful, and really costly.
That would describe
cancer therapy.
Sometimes it works.
It's always expensive,
and it's always dangerous.
So when you come along and
say, instead of treating cancer
with chemotherapy, you can give
intravenous vitamin C, 30, 60,
100,000 milligrams a day
directly into the bloodstream,
and that will kill
cancer cells--
vitamin C at that high
dose is selectively
toxic to cancer
cells, and that's
exactly what chemotherapy is.
But with vitamin C, there's
no damage to healthy cells,
and people don't get nauseous.
They don't lose their hair.
All they do is get better.
Now, we wonder, why is this?
And why isn't this being done?
Because the next assumption
is if this were so good,
my doctor would
already know about it.
If this were so good, it
would be on television.
If this were so good, it would
be taught in medical school.
And that's another one
of those assumptions.
Why would you want to
teach about vitamins
in medical school?
Why would medical doctors who
studied medicine, and practiced
medicine, and are heavily funded
by pharmaceutical companies,
why would they go and
look into vitamins?
The pharmaceutical companies are
not going to advocate vitamins.
That's not going to work.
The government
doesn't know anything
that it isn't told by the
pharmaceutical companies,
and other lobbies, and
by medical lobbies.
The people don't
know because they
had an education that
never had the word
"orthomolecular" in it.
Dr. Hugh Riordan said
that "orthomolecular,"
which is therapeutic nutrition,
orthomolecular medicine,
is not the answer to
any question posed
in medical school.
So what you're set here
with is two divergent views
on health care.
And whenever you
have that, you have
what we are experiencing
today, an impossible dichotomy.
When you talk to people about
using high-dose vitamin C
for cancer, and then you tell
them that it's been heavily
tested--
even the National
Institutes of Health
are showing that
this is working.
Dr. Riordan's team has been
doing this for 25 years or more
now.
I've seen for 30 years
that high doses of vitamins
greatly improve a cancer
patient's quality of life
and greatly improve a cancer
patient's length of life.
And there is many, many
places in the literature where
you can look and find support
for high-dose nutrient therapy
to arrest or even
reverse cancer.
It's an impossible question.
Why isn't it being done?
And the answer, of course, is
until enough people complain,
[LAUGHS] it won't be done.
But if everyone demands
nutritional therapy,
it will change.
Right now, if you want
nutritional therapy,
and you go to your
doctor and ask for it,
it's sort of like ordering chow
mein in a French restaurant.
It's not on the menu, and they
don't know how to make it,
and you're not going to get it.
So what people need
to do, in my view,
is to become their own case
manager or, as I call it,
"doctor yourself."
Now, the question
is, doctor yourself?
Well, I'm not smart
enough to do that.
Well, sure you are.
It is, after all, your
body, and it is not
impossible to learn
about your illness.
Everyone does that.
In fact, the number-one
search on the internet
is for an illness.
And when people actually
read with an open mind,
they will discover
these alternatives.
We're now finding that
patients are teaching
the doctors about nutrition.
It's likely that most
people you talk to
will know more about therapeutic
nutrition than most doctors
that you talk to.
So here we have the
lay public becoming
more knowledgeable about
vitamins than the health
professionals.
And that's kind of dumb.
That doesn't make
any sense at all.
We have the precedent set by Dr.
Max Gerson, back in the 1930s
and '40s, who showed that
vitamins and especially
large quantities
of fresh vegetable
juices and organic foods
would help to reverse cancer.
And Gerson had about
a 50% cure rate
with terminally ill patients.
That's extremely high.
With malignant melanoma, the
Gerson Therapy is spectacular.
That in itself is enough reason
for every physician to learn
about the Gerson
Therapy, but they don't.
Medical school does not talk
about these alternatives.
[MUSIC PLAYING]